docs: Signatures using the Core SDK (#313)
safe-global/safe-docs: pages/sdk-protocol-kit/guides/safe-signatures.md

      isContractSignature: false
    }
  },
  data: { ... }
}
```

The `data` prop in the `signatures` map represents the concrete signature. The `isContractSignature` flag (_false_) indicates if the signature is an Ethereum signature or a Contract signature (A signer Safe Account).

An Ethereum signature is composed of two 32-byte integers (r, s) and an extra byte for recovery id (v), making a total of 65 bytes. In hexadecimal string format, each byte is represented by 2 characters. Hence, a 65-byte Ethereum signature will be 130 characters long. Including the '0x' prefix commonly used with signatures, the total character count for such a signature would be 132. For a more detailed explanation, you can refer to [this link](https://docs.safe.global/safe-smart-account/signatures) for more information.

> To represent a byte (8 bits) in hexadecimal, you need 2 characters. Each hexadecimal character represents 4 bits. Therefore, 2 hexadecimal characters (2 x 4 bits) are able to represent a byte (8 bits).

The final part of the signature, either `1f` or `1c`, indicates the signature type.

> The hexadecimal number `1f` converts to the decimal number 31. It indicates that the signature is an `eth_sign` because the number is greater than 30. This adjustment is made for the `eth_sign` flow in the contracts. You can find the relevant code [here](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-contracts/blob/f03dfae65fd1d085224b00a10755c509a4eaacfe/contracts/Safe.sol#L344-L347).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hexadecimal value `1f` equals to the decimal number 31. Because the decimal value is greater than 30,  it [indicates to the Safe smart contract]()(https://github.com/safe-global/safe-smart-account/blob/f03dfae65fd1d085224b00a10755c509a4eaacfe/contracts/Safe.sol#L344-L347) that the signature is an `eth_sign`.
```

> The hexadecimal number `1c` converts to the decimal number 28, indicating that the signature is a typed data signature. For instance, in the case of the initial signature:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hexadecimal value `1c` equals to the decimal number 28, indicating that the signature is a typed data signature. For instance, in the case of the initial signature:
```

| Signature Length | 32    | 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000082                                                                                                                                                                                                     | The length of the signature. 82 hex is 130 in decimal                                                                                            |
| Signature        | 130   | 023d1746ed548e90f387a6b8ddba26e6b80a78d5bfbc36e5bfcbfd63e136f8071db6e91c037fa36bde72159138bbb74fc359b35eb515e276a7c0547d5eaa042520d3e6565e5590641db447277243cf24711dce533cfcaaf3a64415dcb9fa309fbf2de1ae4709c6450752acc0d45e01b67b55379bdf4e3dc32b2d89ad0a60c231d61f | Signature bytes that are verified by the signature verifier (130 bytes are represented by 260 characters in an hex string)                       |

> The decomposition appears unchanged, but there are two changes: the signature length has doubled because there are now two signatures, and the signature itself is a concatenation of the two regular signatures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table looks very similar to the previous one, but there are two changes:

- The _signature length_ has doubled because this Safe needs two signatures
- The _signature_ value is a concatenation of the two regular signatures.

```

# Safe Signatures

Understanding and generating signatures can be challenging. In the **Safe{Core} SDK**, we provide a set of utilities that can assist in using signatures with Safe. In this article, we will explain how signatures work and how to generate them using the `@safe-global/protocol-kit` package.

## Setting up the example Safe Account

Your Safe Account can be configured with various thresholds and different owner types. An owner can be any Ethereum address, such as:

- External Owned Account (EOA)

> - Child Signer Safe (A Safe Account that's an owner of another Safe Account)

Reviewer 2: That's too specific. Any smart contract that implements an EIP-1271 signature validation method is a valid signer

Author: Thanks!, changed

> When the owner is an EOA, we generate a signature that's different from the signature created using a Safe Account. The Safe Account is a Smart Contract Account, so we need to consider this when collecting the signatures, as the Safe Accounts validate them differently.

Reviewer 2: I think you can be more precise here:
```suggestion
When the owner is an EOA, an ECDSA signature is generated. When the signer is a smart account, the exact signature algorithm depends on the signer itself.
```

Reviewer 2: > so we need to consider this when collecting the signatures, as the Safe Accounts validate them differently.

I don't know what considerations are needed when collecting the signatures. There are some when encoding the signatures, for sure

- `safeAddress3_4`: 3/4 Safe Account (3 signatures required out of 4 owners)
  - `owner1`
  - `owner2`
  - `signerSafe1_1`: 1/1 Safe Account as child owner
    - `owner3`
  - `signerSafe2_3`: 2/3 Safe Account as another child owner
    - `owner4`
    - `owner5`

All the owners are Ethereum addresses. Here are the addresses for this example:

| Who                | Address                                    |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------ |
| **safeAddress3_4** | 0xb3b3862D8e38a1E965eb350B09f2167B2371D652 |
| **owner1**         | 0x90F8bf6A479f320ead074411a4B0e7944Ea8c9C1 |
| **owner2**         | 0xFFcf8FDEE72ac11b5c542428B35EEF5769C409f0 |
| **signerSafe1_1**  | 0x215033cdE0619D60B7352348F4598316Cc39bC6E |
| **owner3**         | 0x22d491Bde2303f2f43325b2108D26f1eAbA1e32b |
| **signerSafe2_3**  | 0xf75D61D6C27a7CC5788E633c1FC130f0F4a62D33 |
| **owner4**         | 0xE11BA2b4D45Eaed5996Cd0823791E0C93114882d |
| **owner5**         | 0xd03ea8624C8C5987235048901fB614fDcA89b117 |

## Transactions

### Creating the transaction object

> We can sign transactions using the `protocol-kit` by creating an instance of the `Safe` class. Here's how we can do it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can sign transactions using the `protocol-kit` by creating an instance of the `Safe` class:
```

// Create the transaction. Send 0.01 ETH
const safeTransactionData: SafeTransactionDataPartial = {
  to: '0x90F8bf6A479f320ead074411a4B0e7944Ea8c9C1',
  value: '100000000000000000', // 0.01 ETH
  data: '0x',
};

let safeTx = await protocolKit.createTransaction({
  transactions: [safeTransactionData],
});
```

The `safeTx` is an `EthSafeTransaction` object that stores the transaction data (`data` prop) and a map of owner-signature pairs (`signatures` prop).

```typescript
class EthSafeTransaction implements SafeTransaction {
  data: SafeTransactionData
  signatures: Map<string, SafeSignature> = new Map()
...
// Other props and methods
}
```

### Generating transaction signatures

Now that we've the transaction object (`safeTx`), it's time to add the necessary signatures.

#### Creating an ECDSA signature

---

We will sign with `owner1` and `owner2` using the `signTransaction()` method. This method add new signatures to the `signatures` map by using the transaction `data` as input.

It's possible to use several signing methods, such as `ETH_SIGN` (eth_sign), `ETH_SIGN_TYPED_DATA_V4` (eth_signTypedData_v4), ...etc. The default signing method is `ETH_SIGN_TYPED_DATA_V4`.

> `ETH_SIGN` produces a regular [EIP-191](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-191) signature. `ETH_SIGN_TYPED_DATA_V4` produces a signature that's compatible with the [EIP-712](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-712) standard. The EIP-712 standard is used by Safe contracts to verify the signatures.

Reviewer 2: EIP-191 and EIP-712 are about something other than the signatures. They define how the message for signing is generated.

If we examine the `safeTx` object at this point, we should see something similar to the following:

```javascript
EthSafeTransaction {
  signatures: Map(2) {
    '0x90f8bf6a479f320ead074411a4b0e7944ea8c9c1' => EthSafeSignature {
      signer: '0x90F8bf6A479f320ead074411a4B0e7944Ea8c9C1',
      data: '0x969308e2abeda61a0c9c41b3c615012f50dd7456ca76ea39a18e3b975abeb67f275b07810dd59fc928f3f9103e52557c1578c7c5c171ffc983afa5306466b1261f',
      isContractSignature: false
    },
    '0xffcf8fdee72ac11b5c542428b35eef5769c409f0' => EthSafeSignature {
      signer: '0xFFcf8FDEE72ac11b5c542428B35EEF5769C409f0',
      data: '0x4d63c79cf9d743782bc31ad58c1a316020b39839ab164caee7ecac9829f685cc44ec0d066a5dfe646b2ffeeb37575df131daf9c96ced41b8c7c4aea8dc5461801c',
      isContractSignature: false
    }
  },
  data: { ... }
}
```

The `data` prop in the `signatures` map represents the concrete signature. The `isContractSignature` flag (_false_) indicates if the signature is an Ethereum signature or a Contract signature (A signer Safe Account).

> An Ethereum signature is composed of two 32-byte integers (r, s) and an extra byte for recovery id (v), making a total of 65 bytes. In hexadecimal string format, each byte is represented by 2 characters. Hence, a 65-byte Ethereum signature will be 130 characters long. Including the '0x' prefix commonly used with signatures, the total character count for such a signature would be 132. For a more detailed explanation, you can refer to [this link](https://docs.safe.global/safe-smart-account/signatures) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An ECDSA signature is composed of two 32-byte integers (r, s) and an extra byte for recovery id (v), making a total of 65 bytes. In hexadecimal string format, each byte is represented by 2 characters. Hence, a 65-byte Ethereum signature will be 130 characters long. Including the '0x' prefix commonly used with signatures, the total character count for such a signature would be 132. For a more detailed explanation, you can refer to [this link](https://docs.safe.global/safe-smart-account/signatures) for more information.
```

> To represent a byte (8 bits) in hexadecimal, you need 2 characters. Each hexadecimal character represents 4 bits. Therefore, 2 hexadecimal characters (2 x 4 bits) are able to represent a byte (8 bits).

> The final part of the signature, either `1f` or `1c`, indicates the signature type.

Reviewer 2: There are the following V values supported by Safe:
- 0 (contract signature)
- 1 (approved hash)
- ethereum-adjusted ECDSA recovery byte {27, 28} + 4 for eip-191 signed message
- ethereum-adjusted ECDSA recovery byte for straightforward ecdsa sig

More on this here: https://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/113499/why-is-value-of-ecdsa-v-often-neither-27-nor-28

It's important that for the EIP-191 signed message the V is adjusted to the ecdsa V + 4. If the generated value is 28 and you adjust it to `0x1f`, the signature verification will fail, it should be `0x20` (28+4=32) instead
